--- 
title: "Paris: Day 3 - Versailles"
layout: post
date: Sun Sep 18 12:14:04 -0500 2011
tags:
 - travel
 - life::play
 - paris
---
Internet has been a little bit flaky in the last couple of days, so
I'm posting this in the afternoon of the fourth day.  Yesterday we
ended up waking up earlier than we planned, even though we were up
late.  I was a little worried about getting to Versailles early so
that we didn't have to queue for everything while there.   We had
enough time to stop at the patisserie Parisien and grab a couple of
Croissant and some macarons for later.  We went right across the
street and into the station which was only a little bit away, and got
the tickets allez-retour to Versailles.  I keep trying to practice my
French, but it doesn't work out that well - I tried to ask for the
ticket en fran&ccedil;ais, but she was confused.  I think that I need
to speak slower, I keep trying to say things fast and probably
mispronounce it.

After we got to the station, we ate our croissant and got some advice
from a nice lady at the platform about which train to take, which
wasn't the next one at the station, but the one after.  I wondered
whether we should really be eating on the platform, because I didn't
see anyone else eating there.  Maybe it's more common to have a
croissant and coffee at a Cafe in the morning.

The train trip to Versailles was nice, it was almost empty which I
thought was good because there wouldn't be so many people.  The trains
are very quiet when they run, because they have been running for a
very long time I guess and the tracks are all worn down.  There is
almost no noise like there is on the trains in Minneapolis when there
is a curve.  I can see how some people would fall asleep.  It only
lasted about half an hour and I passed the time looking at the sights
on the way.  We passed [Microsoft's Paris Offices][1], which had a big
advertisement for Windows 7 on it.

[1]: http://www.microsoft.com/france/microsoft-en-france/microsoft-france/campus.aspx

After we showed up at Versailles Rive-Gauche station, it was a short walk to get to the
palace and get inside.  The tour starts right away and there wasn't
really a shop that was open early in the morning.  I should have taken
some time to stop and get something while we were in Versailles (the
town) because we hadn't had enough for breakfast.  I gather that
breakfast isn't very popular here.  Diana wasn't happy about walking
through the whole palace without any coffee or anything to eat.  There
was a small snack shop at the end of the walk through the main palace
and we stopped to get some drinks and coffee.  Everything inside
Versailles was pretty expensive by American standards (probably by
French standards too).  Coffee was about 2 &euro; and the drink was
about 3,5&euro;.

<a rel="photo" href="/images/vac/paris11/versailles_hall_museum.jpg">
<img title="Museum of French History at Versailles"
src="/images/vac/paris11/versailles_hall_museum-postsize.jpg" />
</a>

The main palace was quite resplendent and the hall of mirrors was nice
and large.  There were so many rooms and they all had different colors
of wall coverings.  In some ways it was a bit too much, so much gold.
The ceilings were quite interesting as well and the advice to keep
looking up from Diana was well taken.  She got most of the pictures
inside the palace itself, but I was taken by the Museum of French
History's Galerie des Battailles with it's paintings along both walls 
chronologizing the great French battles going through the ages.
They were all floor-to-ceiling renditions and covered from way in the
past up to pretty recently.

<a rel="photo" href="/images/vac/paris11/versailles_fountains_1.jpg">
<img title="Jupitre Fountain at Versailles Garden"
src="/images/vac/paris11/versailles_fountains_1-postsize.jpg" />
</a>

After seeing the palace, we went outside to the part that I was
excited about - the gardens behind (in front?  Which is the back?) of
the palace.  After finding out that they were going on, I scheduled
the trip on a Saturday so that we could witness the Grandes Eaux
Musicales when the fountains run and there is music set around them.
The fountains themselves are pretty spectacular, and there are about
30 of them to see.  They weren't all running because of drought
conditions, but the main ones ran from when we got there at about
11h30 until they all shut off at 12h00.  The gardens themselves are
also quite amazing even without the fountains, They have tall trees
that are groomed to have really tall (20m?) walls and foliage around
the areas with sculptures.  Each area was fairly unique.

There are many restaurants on the garden grounds and it was about
lunchtime, so we stopped at one and had some lunch to pass the time.
I was convinced that with what amounted to a normal length lunch at a
Brasserie there we could eventually wait out the break in the
fountains, because they were starting again at 15h30.  The lunch was
very nice, I had some sausage with fries and Diana had the duck
confit, something which the waiter said was "traditional French".  The
meal was good and there were about four or five different cats who
obviously lived off of table scraps.

<a rel="photo" href="/images/vac/paris11/versailles_apollo_fountain.jpg">
<img title="Apollo Fountain at Versailles Garden"
src="/images/vac/paris11/versailles_apollo_fountain-postsize.jpg" />
</a>

We walked through a couple more gardens and saw the Mirror Fountain
display, which runs all day long every 10 minutes and is choreographed
to music.  It was pretty great, and then we walked to a small boutique
and considered going to see the Grand Trianon and the Petit Trianon.
The walk was just a bit too much for me and definitely so for Diana
though, and I didn't want to pay for the little train 3,30 &euro; to
go there for only half an hour or so.  We were le tired from all the
walking.  Again another French sight seeing monument that has defeated
us by it's massive size!  We only got to the start of the Grand Canal.
Right before we started on our journey back to the palace, the
fountains started flowing again.

<a rel="photo" href="/images/vac/paris11/versailles_grove_three_fountains.jpg">
<img title="The Grove of the Three Fountains at Versailles Garden"
src="/images/vac/paris11/versailles_grove_three_fountains-postsize.jpg" />
</a>

I charted a course through the other side of the gardens that we
hadn't seen before, and tried to keep it short-ish but still see the
unique gardens.  I'm glad because there were three very interesting
ones in the trek back.  There was the Encelade Grove with a Titan
being punished in the center, and then the Grove of Appolo's Baths
which is in a very different style than all the others, with curving
paths which winded through the garden instead of geometrical ones.
Finally the grove of the three fountains which had no sculptures at
all and was very long with multiple levels.

After all of that we walked back through everything and past some of
the flower gardens on the way back to the main gate and then the
station.  Diana wanted to stop at the Starbucks in Versailles and see
if they had Pumpkin Spice Lattes, which they didn't have, and the
barista was very interested. "They're spicy lattes?" she asked.  I
think she thought they were spicy hot.  Di just got a coffee and
relaxed for a little while before we headed back to the train.  I was
getting quite tired as well on the way back and almost fell asleep a
couple of times.

After getting off at the station, we stopped at a grocery store and
got some snacky cheese and water for nourishment, and then noticed
that the Fromager was open that we wanted to try out.  We stopped and
bought some cheese that we will have later - they were vacuuming some
so that they would be possible to take on the plane home, but we
didn't get ours because we will have it here.  Super tired from the
trip, I ended up sleeping until about 23h, at which point we didn't
feel like going out for the rest of the night and stayed up reading
and fighting with the unreliable internet wifi at the hotel for a
while.  I ended up reading _The Magician_, which just happens to be
set in Paris.  I wonder if I will spot any of the monuments.

