--- 
title: Seventeen
layout: post
date: Fri Mar 25 18:31:45 -0500 2011
tags:
 - life::play
 - writing
 - 30days
---
She sat at the bar and sipped on her red wine.  It wasn't spectacular,
but it was the best that this wine bar had, and after all she wasn't
here to sample the alcohol selection.  The white daisy sat in her hair
and displayed her intention to whoever was doing to walk through that
door and recognize her.

Online dating wasn't going that well for Lisa, the problem being that
most of the guys who she met on the site were either losers who
weren't worth her time or were
just cruising for some simple casual sex.  Not that she didn't enjoy
herself with some of the latter kind of suitor, but it wasn't her
final goal anyway.  After six months of nothing serious, she was about
ready to move on.

Jeremy's profile wasn't different from the rest of the ones that she
had set up with before: typical active guy picture with him throwing
some frisbee in a park, interests like sports, gaming, and comedy TV
shows.   The thing that set him apart from the rest was his
communication.  She couldn't put her finger on it to begin with, but
it was somehow more sophisticated that the rest of the people she had
conversed with.

It started with the usual "you're cute" type of message but quickly
progressed until he was talking about philosophy, the universe and
human nature.  She started checking her email in the mornings before
work just to see if there was something there.  It was the highlight of
the day when the email noise dinged and she saw that it was more words
from his mind to her.

The little bell rang, and the door to the wine bar opened, and Jeremy
walked in to her life.
