--- 
title: Doing the easy hard thing
layout: post
date: Sat May 07 01:03:50 -0500 2011
tags:
 - life::work
 - productivity
 - goals
---
I've written [recently](http://base0.net/posts/experimentation) about
[Health Month](http://healthmonth.com) and the fact that I am trying
to do things on a more habit basis.  Last month I had a twelve rules,
more than in March and a lot of things to track whether I was doing
every day.  At the same time, I wasn't getting the important things
done.  Two of my rules were consistently not getting done.  The rules
were of course the most important ones - "Make progress on the thesis"
and "Read papers for my thesis".  These are very likely the most
important things that I need to get done, and they were getting
drowned out by insignificant rules like "Floss every day" and "Only
drink 4 cups of coffee a week".

This month I've decided that my rules are doing to only be the
important things that need to change and are actually difficult.  This
might mean that I have less of incentive to get the small things done
which will be a good improvement, but I don't think so - I've been
doing those things for two months already and I don't think I will be
dropping them any time soon.  With this in mind, the rules that I've
chosen for May are more difficult, but also fewer:

 * Do thesis work 5 days a week
 * Read an academic paper 5 days a week
 * Stay under my calories every day
 * Write blog posts 4 days a week
 * Exercise 40 minutes 5 days a week
 * Go to bed before 10pm 5 days a week

The "gimmie" rules on this list are still pretty hard, but they are
the easy hard things.   Exercising 40 minutes a day is easy
for me, since I've been doing it a long time, but it's still hard to
get myself down to the room every time.  It's the easy hard thing -
the thing that impacts my day enough that I don't want to do it all
the time, but once it's started, it's going to get done.  Losing
weight is hard.  Almost anyone who has tried, successful or not, will
tell you so.  It's also easy though, because the steps to complete it
are straightforward - exercise and eat less calories.  Most of my
rules have been the easy hard thing in the last few months.

Blogging is the third easy hard thing on the list.  It's trivial to
write blog posts once I make the decision to get it done, but it's
still difficult to wedge it into my schedule for some reason.  For me,
calorie restriction is also easy hard.

Going to bed is an example of another easy hard thing, but unlike the
other two ones, I'm not getting it done.  It's extremely difficult for
me to go to bed so early, even though I'm [waking up
earlier](http://base0.net/posts/everythings-waking-up-something) I
still tend to be awake until at least midnight.  Normally I would
expect myself to have a hard time waking up early when I do that, but
it seems like I don't have that problem.

Unfortunately, the easy hard things aren't the most important things.
The rest of the rules are the hard hard things, that I have difficulty
getting myself to do.  They are the ones that I am really sad about
not finishing, and the reason that I cut the insignificant rules this
month.  Now to actually get some of them done.
