--- 
title: "Paris - Day 1:  Metro Jazz Fusion"
layout: post
date: Fri Sep 16 03:56:12 -0500 2011
tags:
 - paris
 - live::play
 - travel
---
We landed in Paris about 24 hours ago.  Getting off of the plane I was
starting to get ready for the trip ahead to the RER and then the Metro
and then our hotel, and to see Paris for the first time.  The airport
is quite nice at CDG, and we didn't have to go through any additional
screening or a passport check when we landed.  I thought for sure we
would need to get our passports checked again.  Oh, by the way, we
ended up going through security in Iceland for the EU, which was
similar to going through it in the US.  Similar enough that I almost
ended up dropping my pants for the inspector because I had to take off
my belt and my shorts don't exactly fit snugly anymore.

After getting to the Notre Dame station, I realized that I was
entirely confused by the Paris metro signage.  I had known on the map
that I looked at before we left that we needed to go to the _Cluny-La
Sorbonne_ station and then from there on to the next station down to
minimize our walking to the hotel, but I couldn't see the words
_Cluny-La Sorbonne_ anywhere and there didn't seem to be any
indication of the correct color-coded on the signage as well.  I also
was a bit nervous because at that point we were walking down the
street with everything that we had brought to paris including our
museum passes and all of our clothing.  I was feeling a bit exposed.
We ended up finding both the way to the wrong metro track (the one
that goes by the Eiffel, I found out later) and the other RER track
before I finally figured out by the stations marked.  I should have
paid more attention to the fact that the lines are marked with their
terminal destinations rather than their colors most of the time.  I
also could have figured out the numbers that I was supposed to run,
because it was pretty clear once I figured I was supposed to be on
line 10 headed toward _Gare d'Austerlitz_.

So after minor trouble, we finally arrived at our hotel - [Hotel Abbatial
Saint-Germain][1], completely
jet lagged and tired.  Our room is quite small, but the hotel is about
a block from the seine and Notre Dame, so I think it is a good
location.  It is also clean and everything seems to work, which was a
problem the last time that I decided to book a hotel in a metro area
in Europe.  It will be a good base of operations.  We unpacked and put
the importants into the safe, and promptly took a 3-5 hour nap.

[1]: http://hotelabbatial.com/

After we were a little more rested, we changed for going out to our
first Paris meal.  I was a bit [worried][2] that I would get everyting
wrong, picking up the wrong forks, sitting down at the wrong spot,
ordering incoherently, and such.  I steeled myself for being horrible
at Paris.  We walked down the street to the Cafe du Metro which
is fairly nice and open to foreigners with an english language menu
even available outside.  I ordered the beef steak with fries and
Diana got ham sandwich with cheese on top.  I'm not exactly sure that
she was supposed to have cheese on top as well, but it was definitely
delicious from her review.  She also got some fromage on a plate which
was very delicious (she kindly shared).

[2]: http://twitter.com/#!/jamuraa/status/114420712344797185

After dinner, we decided to walk around the neighborhood a little.  I
wanted to see our first monument as Notre Dame was definitey within
walking distance.  As we walked toward the Seine, some people were
behind us and seemed to be in a hurry.  Diana asked "sorry, are we in
your way?" Immediately the response came back - "I don't know, what is
your way?" from a quite happy it seemed Frenchman.  He explained
quickly that he was headed to a jazz club to see his friend in a jam
session, and would we like to come to see his friend?  Normally I am
quite wary of people being this friendly so quickly, so I was wary,
but I figured that I still had my wits about me.  So we walked along
the Seine and around the neighborhood looking for the bar that his
friend was going to play at, and got to know his friend Lisa, who was
really happy to be meeting someone from Chicago originally.

We ended up in the [La Guillotine Pub][4], or more specifically,
downstairs in [Le Caveau des Oubliettes][5].  True to the man's word, there
was a bunch of Jazz being played in the basement, which was a 19th
century cellar at least, and it had a lot of stuff on the walls.  We
each had a beer and listened to the band play out the rest of it's
set.  Somehow, we had accidently stumbled on one of my goals of
visiting a jazz bar while we in Paris.  Still a bit tired so we did
not stay long, also the drinks were quite expensive (&euro; 7 for a
small beer).

[4]: http://intelligenttravel.nationalgeographic.com/2008/11/11/la_guillotine_pub/
[5]: http://www.caveaudesoubliettes.fr/

<a rel="photo" href="/images/vac/paris11/notre_dame_night.jpg">
<img title="Notre Dame at Night"
src="/images/vac/paris11/notre_dame_night-postsize.jpg" />
</a>

Afterwards, we walked and saw Notre Dame up close at night.  I took
some pictures with my phone.  It was a successful first day in Paris,
I think I'm already going to like it here.
