--- 
title: "When 1 hour is not 1 hour, again."
layout: post
date: Thu Sep 08 23:57:20 -0500 2011
tags:
 - productivity
 - time
 - life::work
---
If you've been following my [twitter
stream](http://twitter.com/jamuraa) lately, you might have noticed
that I am posting about once a day with an update on my thesis work.
I've been working for a while at a particular piece of the puzzle,
making slow but steady progress.  The key has been partly due to the
fact that I'm forcing myself to do it every day, and not slack off.
It's a big productivity booster, and I think it has been helping me
get more done for a while now.  There are a bunch of reasons why I
think it has helped me eek a bit more than an hour out of that work
every day.

The first is
that I am making myself culpable after the fact about what I have done
in that day.  While there is some evidence that telling people what
you're going to do before you do it is [detrimental to
finishing](http://www.ted.com/talks/derek_sivers_keep_your_goals_to_yourself.html),
it's a little hard to keep something like a Thesis a secret.  I've
compromised by switching the rules around a little bit, and posting
what I've done after I do it.  It helps me stay on task by reminding
myself that I will have to fess up to not doing anything if there is
nothing that I accomplished in the day.  It also helps me look back on
my progress for the day and gives me a little review - reminding
myself where I was if I lose track as well.

Another facet that I've been gaining from is that when I'm in
downtime, I'm never really not thinking about my thesis work.
Everything that I end up doing at work and especially the pieces of my
work which are related are keeping my mind on task and making me think
about what I need to do at the end of the day.  I also make a point of
trying to split my work in half for the day, and take a walk while I'm
still thinking about stuff.  Lately I've been listening to some
podcasts on my daily exercise, but I am convinced that there is still
some part of my brain working on it, especially because I know that
I'm only halfway done with the day - I am thinking about what I want
to accomplish in that second half-hour of work.

Related to the half-hour nature of my time management, I also use the
[Pomodoro
technique](http://www.pomodorotechnique.com/) in order to time the
intervals.  I'm specifically using
[Pomodroido](http://www.pomodroido.com/), which works quite well for
Android.  The advantage of using the pomo as a timer is that I don't
think about looking about how much time is left, I know that I will
get at least a 5 minute break between sessions, and it also has a
nifty progress bar and levelling-up system which gives me a great
sense of accomplishment.  By looking at how many pomos I've done in a
week, I can confirm that I did my work for every day.  I've used the
pomodoro in the past for general tasks, but I have a harder time when
I'm not able to focus on a single task.  Using it for something as
focused as "thesis work" works out well for me.

Lastly, I think that the timing of my work is a big factor.  I do my
work at the end of my work day, which means that my mind is still in
the productive mode from being at work all day long, but I also do it
in a different environment, so I am training myself to think about
other things.   There is also somewhat of a "thinking about it outside
the timebox" which happens because of completing the work nearer to
the end of the day.  I haven't actually experimented, but I am fairly
convinced that if I did it at the beginning of the day, I would get
less done.

Working every day on my thesis has been a big boon to making progress
on it in the last few months.  I am making real progress which is
shown by the fact that I'm almost ready to run my first experiment.
Using the timebox in the way that I do, by using a specific timer,
splitting it in half and doing something else in the middle, and
putting the work at the end of the day, has been a big help to getting
a lot more out of an hour of work every day than I would expect.  I'm
hoping that I can take these tools and apply them to other projects
as well - I'm wondering about how well they would apply to something
like my consulting when I have a project that needs to get done.  I'm
also wondering if I can add another hour to the work in the day to
"ramp it up" for the last parts of the thesis when I'm in crunch time.

