--- 
title: Twenty One
layout: post
date: 2011-03-29 23:57:52 -0500
tags:
 - life::play
 - writing
 - 30days
---
She pulled the car up to the lot, pushing the button to get in to park
the car.  Normally she would have had the valet take the car, but this
was a "see and be seen" event, which meant that there was a paparazzi
line, and that means that her Honda Civic needed to be parked and she
was sneaking in the back entrance.

In the back of her mind, she was happy that she got to drive herself
everywhere, and didn't get pampered with limos - if it meant that she
didn't have to deal with standing on a red carpet in front of some
backdrop filled with logos to her her picture taken.  At least she
didn't have to worry about the tabloids wondering why she has some
random guy on her arm instead of a up-and-coming boy toy.

As she walked across the skybridge to the theater, she felt an intense
out-of-place emotion.  She was decked from top to bottom in a gala
outfit, with a smooth shiny red strapless designer dress and the shoes
to match, and carrying a handbag that cost more than most of the cars
that she passed on the way.  There was a guy kind-of mingling out
here, looking profoundly normal.  She reminded herself that she had
both her taser and mace on her.

As the door opened to backstage for her to sneak in, she wondered if
she could have skipped this event entirely.  Someone would probably
notice if she didn't show up.  Then she wondered if she could sneak
out during intermission.  Probably not.  She sighed and put on her
best smile as she walked into the lobby, with all of the rest of the
stars.

