--- 
title: "Paris: Day 7 - The Two Types of Vacation"
layout: post
date: Tue Sep 27 21:59:51 -0500 2011
tags:
 - travel
 - paris
 - life::play
---
It's almost a week after the events of this post happened.  The last
day in Paris was mostly spent not in Paris though.  There wasn't a lot
of time in the city on the last day because of various travel concerns.
We woke up at our "normal" time and did our last bit of packing and a
sweep of the room before we checked out.  We went straight to the
RER, because Diana was rightfully worried about getting to the airport
on time with the addition of the train travel and all the stuff
surrounding that.

We got to the airport on time, and then there was the big line at the
gate (apparently there were a lot of people flying Iceland Air that
day).  We got to skip the line thanks to us checking in the day
before - even though we couldn't print the boarding passes, we could
still skip and just check in bags.  CDG Terminal 1 is really nice once
you get to the final gates, and it seems to be set up in a nice way,
where there are a lot of little nodes of nice plush areas which have
about five gates each.  Once we finally found our gate, we sat down
and had breakfast, a croissant and apple pastry, which weren't as good
as the other patisserie stuff that we had, but I can't expect much
from airport food anyway.

The flight was mostly full, but we did a good job of selecting our
seats in order to maximize the possibility to have a row to ourselves
- I chose the aisle and the window seat in a single row which left the
unhappy middle seat, and there wasn't anyone there after the plane
filled up.   One thing that has been nice in both directions is the
plane seats.  It is probably slightly because of my [weight loss][1]
over the last year, but also it seems like the Iceland Air over-seas
flights have more room between the seats.  At any rate we got our own
row for the flight.

[1]: http://base0.net/posts/august-diet-update

The layover in at [Keflavik Airport][2] was pretty short, but we had
to go through a whole maze of gates and stuff.  It is interesting
because they have to corral the people who are headed out of the EU,
but they still have all of the gates on the upper levels, so they end
up making us go downstairs just to have us climb up the stairs again,
and walk in the same hallway except separated by a glass partition.
It could be very disorienting, making the airport seem larger than it
is.  We picked up some dinner while we were there though, just
packaged sandwiches from the caf&eacute;, and our last calorie-laden drinks
that wouldn't have any corn syrup for a while.

[2]: http://www.kefairport.is/english/

On the second flight, I managed to snag an exit row near the front of
the plane, but miraculously it still had the normal non-stationary
seat armrests, which meant it was easy to fit into and not
uncomfortable for either of us.  I think that they just crammed these
two seats in row 8 when they discovered that they had the space.
There wasn't any reading light or air though, so they would be pretty
bad for someone who couldn't sleep on a overnight flight.  The
entertainment on Iceland Air was not bad in either direction.  I
watched [The Adjustment Bureau][3] on the way out and [What Happens in
Vegas][4] on the way back, as well as some random TV shows.  Mostly I
ended up reading books on the Kindle though, which has increased it's
value in my eyes after reading on a plane - it really is so much
easier to read and bring on travel, I recommend it if you take at
least a couple flights a year and normally read, because there is no
page turning and the page is nice and big but it is very light.  I
would seriously consider one of those DVD rental service type of
things where you rent them for the flight, but kindles with books
loaded up instead.  That's probably not allowed by the Kindle user
agreement and DRM though.

[3]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Adjustment_Bureau
[4]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/What_Happens_in_Vegas

In the last couple of days of the trip and over the last few days, I
was thinking about how I seem to be taking two different types of
vacations lately.  The first type is the kind that we took here,
and has a similarity to the trip to Portland last year.  They are
the type of destination trip where we want to see a bunch of things.
Paris was very much a busy vacation, with so much to see that it was
impossible to see everything in the same trip even given the six full
days that we had.  The second type of vacation is the type like when
we went to [Kauai][6] for our honeymoon, where we want to really just
get out of town, go somewhere beautiful, and then relax in a chateau
or on a beach for some time.

[6]: http://base0.net/posts/kauai-day-1

The different destinations are telling of the type of vacation that
most people are taking to that locale, including the types of
activities available.  Paris is in some ways the ultimate "busy"
vacation -- it seems like it would be possible to take an entire year
of vacation there and still never see everything that there is to see.
There is something about the city that makes it just have so much to
take in.  Most cities would qualify for a good location for a "busy"
vacation.   Most of the "relax" vacation areas are geography-dependent
in some way, because they are in a tropical locale, where it's just
that much easier to relax and enjoy the weather.  They are also more
situated towards coasts than other places, because it's just that much
more relaxing, I guess.  The types of things that you would do on the
"relax" vacations are more likely to be physical, like swimming,
surfing, snorkeling, hiking.  The types of things on "busy" locations
are more likely to be cerebral in nature, looking at museums, visiting
historic sites, and taking in art and culture.

While some people seem to take more of one kind of vacation than the
other, I am thinking that I might want to try to even them out for a
while.  Paris was definitely a relaxing vacation, because it was
different from the ordinary and a joy to see and experience a foreign
country, but I can't say that it was more relaxing
than a beach for a week, or hiking around some foothills.  It is hard
to say that I like one more than the other.   Another thing is that
both of the types of vacations tend to have a time limit for me.  I
don't think that I would enjoy staying in Paris for two weeks for
example, because I would just not be able to process it all.  At the
same time, I end up getting antsy and wanting to get some stuff done
when I stay too long at a relaxing locale.

I'm thinking that this dichotomy between vacation types is the reason
that sometimes people can get to the point where they need the
"vacation from the vacation".  Maybe the best way would be to schedule
something busy for the first half of a trip, and then relaxing for the
second half?   When I travelled to [Greece][7], the first half of the
week was in Athens, which is definitely a "busy" location, and the
second half on the island of Kos, which is beach-laden and mostly a
relaxing locale.  It might have been the perfect combination.

[7]: http://base0.net/posts/%CE%B5%CE%BB%CE%BB%CE%AC%CE%B4%CE%B1:-%CE%B5%CF%80%CE%AF%CE%BB%CE%BF%CE%B3%CE%BF%CF%82/

For now though, I am working back into the swing of things, and almost
catching up on the work that all needs to be done since I have been
gone.  The next vacation I think will be "relax" though.

