--- 
title: Taking Credit When Due
layout: post
date: Wed Feb 22 23:27:02 -0600 2012
tags:
 - life::think
 - credit
 - payments
 - online
---
I just discovered possibly the fourth or fifth thing online in the
last week which is dealing with transferring money from one person to
another.  This is a big thing online, and there are quite a few
startups which are tackling it, it seems like.   Mostly because there
is a pain point on the internet right now, and that pain point is
actually paying for things.

Right now, everyone uses PayPal.  This is because they have the kind
of market share that everyone dreams of, with a huge amount of people
with accounts already setup, and the ability to pay into an account
without needing one of your own.  Of course, once you have an account,
you can't just pay someone without logging in yourself, you have to
login and use your account.  Everyone also hates how much money PayPal
is taking from each transaction, and how they use somewhat shady
methods to avoid being called a bank so that they don't have to abide
by the rules that normal banks do, even though they technically have a
lot of cash in accounts.  They also randomly could just shut down your
account because they think it's shady, or decide that you [can't take
donations][1] randomly because you aren't selling something, or cause
your [violin to be destroyed][2] because of stupidity.

[1]: http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2011/12/06/paypal-to-regretsy-sorry-_n_1132679.html
[2]: http://consumerist.com/2012/01/paypal-tells-buyer-to-destroy-purchased-violin-instead-of-return-for-refund.html

So lots of people want to get around PayPal, for reasons which are
completely understandable.  This feels similar to the thing where
everyone started to hate on Godaddy recently because of their [support
of SOPA][3].  Honestly I think that it was just a tipping point,
because I've been off of Godaddy for so long because they were just
annoying to work with.  However, domain names are easy to technically
route around.  Money is not so much.   The obvious solution is to just
make something that's "PayPal but not PayPal".  This is the approach
taken by [Moneybookers][4], which is accepted in some places, but
every place it is, it seems a bit shady to me.  That's not the
connotation that you want floating around when you are putting your
money in an account.

[3]: http://arstechnica.com/tech-policy/news/2011/12/godaddy-faces-december-29-boycott-over-sopa-support.ars
[4]: http://moneybookers.com

The emergence of smartphones has kickstarted another set of ideas with
this.  [Square][5] is the one that everyone brings up when you start
talking about it.  That's the little square thing that scans the
magnetic stripe of the credit cards.  The solution is pretty good
because the magstripe actually has more information, and verifies that
the card itself was present.  I've been seeing it a little more
lately, most recently at a trip to [RollerDome][6].  In the same line
is [Card.io][7], which is another credit card processing solution, but
just uses the camera on your phone instead of requiring a stripe.  I
don't know how they're getting around needing the extra digits.  Both
of those solutions enable using just a credit card number as well.

[5]: http://squareup.com
[6]: http://roller-dome.com
[7]: http://card.io

I really like the credit card solution for paying people, because it
has what PayPal has in the consumer's mind: security.  Technically,
you could take a picture of someone else's card using card.io, with
only access to their card for a few seconds, for example, when they
are off in the bathroom at a restaurant or something.  That means that
there is low security, right?  That's not right though, because
everyone checks their credit statement for stuff that they haven't
charged for, and they know what to do - they call the credit card
company and get it taken off.  It's called a Chargeback, and it's
fairly uncommon, because the person who made the charge has to pay.
It's like a bounced check with the opposite penalty.

This fact that everyone knows what to do with a misplaced credit charge
means that we can technically make the actual payment point much
easier than we previously had.  In the past, people didn't know what
to do with credit cards, so they imprinted a copy of it, and checked
your ID completely, and did a bunch of other stuff to make sure you
were you.  Nowadays we live with these plastic cards all over the
place, so a simple swipe in a grocery store or at a fast food
restaurant will most likely get you your stuff without even having to
sign it.  Joe Schmoe at the drive-thru has no idea if you are the
person on that card, but you know what to do if someone charges on
your card, so they don't have to care.  It's why I'm not worried about
NFC or RFID chips in cards, or other types of insta-pay methods
wreaking havoc on the financial system - in fact, it's probably better
for everyone when you can pay in less time with less hassle.

Of course, this added layer of convenience is actually costing us a
ton of money every year in increased prices because the credit
companies make money on every transaction, even when you don't pay a
cent in card fees or interest every year.  Each transaction on any of
these services will cost the retailer a percentage of the cost plus a
flat fee, in addition to any fees that you have to pay when you don't
pay it all off at once.  It's a hidden cost that is just part of doing
business, and it's being passed onto the customer.

In the olden days
of imprinting cards and sending mail off to get processed by a real
live human being, this type of payment model made sense, but it
doesn't really now - the profit margin on being a clearinghouse for
all of these transactions is just obscene.  The problem is, Joe's
Credit needs to be accepted everywhere.  When networks as large and
established as Discover and American Express are having issues being accepted
everywhere, it's the definition of a high cost of entry.  It's one of
the things that I point at pretty early on in free market
conversations.

However, I really do give credit where due - the
mindshare of the credit card is amazing in America.  The electronic
money system is here, and it's owned by Visa and MasterCard.
Solutions like [Stripe][8] are making it easier every day to route
around the PayPal pain point using the existing networks, so there
might be a light at the end of the tunnel.

[8]: http://stripe.com
