--- 
title: Under Review
layout: post
date: Sat Feb 25 22:12:21 -0600 2012
tags:
 - reviews
 - rant
 - amazon
 - life::think
---
I've been getting annoyed more about people asking for my opinion on
things.  Normally, I would be willing to give my opinion on lots of
items or experiences, and I've done so in the past, even on [this
blog][1].  I really do form some solid opinions on things and I think
that I am a good judge of the quality of stuff.

[1]: http://base0.net/posts/book-review-microserfs

So why am I getting
annoyed about people wanting to know?  Because it's all for their
benefit.  They're asking me to take time out of my day and type in a
web form so that they can sell more of their stuff.  The most recent
big offender is Amazon, which I have been using a lot more lately, but
has started to get really annoying about this stuff.   Three days
after buying a thing, without fail, I get an email "Please review this
thing!".

First of all, how do they know that I've even formed an opinion about
it?  Half of the time when I get that email, I haven't even had a
chance to use the doodad or whatever that I have ordered, so I can't
even review the stuff if I had wanted to.  Sometimes the office to our
building is closed at strange times or I just don't sync up with it
being open, so a couple of times, it was still *in the box* and I
hadn't even had it in my hands yet.  It would be much better to email
me three weeks later, or better yet, don't email me at all.

Second, there is absolutely no benefit for me in this process.  Not
only does the email come at the wrong time, I have no incentive to
complete this arduous process.  I already bought the thing - you have
my money.  I'm not going to buy another of the same thing, and I'm
getting nothing out of giving random people on the internet my opinion
about the stuff.   The content is completely under your control after
I write the review.  If you decide that my opinion is great and want
to use it to advertise your product, I have no say in that.
Similarly, you could decide that it doesn't conform to your
[guidelines][2] and completely squelch the review.  If I'm going to
review something, I can do it here.  Even if I wasn't tech-savvy, it
doesn't take five seconds to start up a tumblr, blogger or wordpress
account where I do have total control.

[2]: http://www.amazon.com/gp/community-help/customer-reviews-guidelines

Let's talk about those guidelines for a bit too.  If I want to say
that the product is a fucking pile of shit, I can't do that, because
it has profanity.   Even if the product I'm reviewing is [literally a
pile of shit][3].  I also can't just leave a short review, like the
size of a twitter post, because it would be too short.  There's a lot
of stuff in those guidelines that I might want to do in my review.
The guidelines themselves seem to be steering people towards writing
more content and also towards positive reviews.  You can't complain
about the seller or the packaging, or that you got something other
than what you paid for.  They siphon those off into other complaint
departments.  There are valid arguments for that, but I feel like if
the seller is being a dick about something, I might not want to buy
their products.

[3]: http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000VSL578/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&tag=basezero-20&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=B000VSL578

Finally, there is just too many people asking me to do stuff for them
nowadays.  Restaurant.com and Foursquare and OpenTable and Random
Clothing Store #5 and NewEgg - it seems like everyone is asking me to
review things nowadays.  Amazon is one of the worst offenders so they
get in the crosshairs here, but it happens far too often when I buy
something online.  If I want to review something, you know what I'll
do?  I'll freaking review it.  I'll do it on your site if you haven't
bugged me about it, and probably post it other places too.  If I
really love a product, I'll be [tweeting][4] and telling people about
it naturally, and you want me to do that.  If I have some problem,
I'll try to contact customer support about it.  That's about as much
as you can ask from someone who you already made money off of.

[4]: http://twitter.com/jamuraa

