---
title: December Diet Report
layout: post
date: Mon Jan  2 04:55:25 CST 2012
tags:
 - life::play
 - exercise
 - running
 - diet
 - charts
---

Okay, so it's not December anymore, but the data and charts that I'm presenting
in this post are, so it's still the December report.  I am proud to
report that while most of the month is already done I have been on
track.  I've been watching what I eat less, mostly because of holiday
treats in the office and various social functions, but I haven't been
super off my game, and I've been able to make sure I don't go
overboard *too* often.

{{ "diet/2011-12-18_30d.png 2011 December 30 days graph" | postsizeimage }}

The chart still says that I'm losing at 1 pound a week, but the data
itself is showing me a lot of red points which I haven't been really
that used to seeing in the last year.  I should be expecting to see it
a lot more as I switched from losing weight to maintaining in October.
The closest I've come to giving up the ghost has been 229 shortly
before Thanksgiving, and I haven't come close yet.  At this rate it
looks like I will succeed with my goal of being below 230 at the end
of the year.

{{ "diet/2011-12-18_year.png 2011 December Year to Date graph" | postsizeimage }}

The yearly image still makes me look good, with the lions share of the
year losing and being on a straight trend downwards, and with the last
few months showing the kind of straight across line that I should be
seeing when I am maintaining weight.

Exercise has been going as well as can be expected, and I still don't
have a good way of graphing my runs or anything, so no fancy graphs,
but I have been improving.  My average was 10:17 per mile a month ago,
and the [last
run](http://www.dailymile.com/people/jamuraa/entries/11579188) that I
did was at 10:07 per mile, which is not bad of an improvement.  I've
kept on schedule for the interval increases, which means that now I'm
running for 2 minutes 45 seconds and walking for 2 minutes still.  I
think that when I get to 3 minutes and am comfortable, I will try
reducing the walking time instead of increasing the running time.

This month I'd like to expand a little on the workouts that I do, and
my plans for improvements in the next year.  Each week, I run or walk
five days a week.  On Monday, Wednesday, and Saturday, I run the [Five
Parks Goal Loop][1], so named because while I am on it, I run past or
through Audobon Park, Deming Heights Park, Cavell Playground, Waite
Park, and Windom Park.  The route itself I would rate as pretty hilly,
if only because of the monster of a hill which just precedes the
Deming Heights - I took a [picture][2] on one of my off days of this
80 foot climb.  Lately I've been finishing it in about 45 minutes, and
when I am consistently finishing it in less than 45 minutes, I'll be
changing up the route so that I am running farther.

[1]: http://www.dailymile.com/routes/825381-running-route-in-minneapolis-mn
[2]: http://base0.net/images/project52/41-the-hill.jpg

So that's three days of what you might call "training" a week, at
about 4.5 miles.  On Thursdays, I am starting to do something that I
am going to call "run as you like day", where I run and walk at the
intervals that I feel like instead of in the lock step of the timed
intervals on my other days.  Lately I've been going around [Columbia
park][3] during these, but that might change in the near future as
well as I want to be able to shake up the routes every month or so
just to keep things interesting.  In the [most
recent](http://www.dailymile.com/people/jamuraa/entries/11518642) one,
I've been pretty happy with the pace that I kept up.  Usually I try to
get some longer distances on this run just because, and I have been
able to run for almost a mile straight, which is pleasing.

[3]: http://www.dailymile.com/routes/819054-walking-route-in-minneapolis-mn

Sundays are my day where I am really giving myself a break, because
it's between two "training" days, which means I don't want to strain
the system too much.  Usually it's the same route as Thursday but I am
very restrained, walking almost the whole route.  I usually end up
trying to keep a pace which is under 12 minutes a mile though, which I
consider to be a fast enough walk to get the heart rate up.  On
Tuesday and Friday, I have actual rest days where I don't exercise at
all.

In summary form:

  * Monday: Interval running, 4.5 miles
  * Tuesday: Rest day
  * Wednesday: Interval running, 4.5 miles
  * Thursday: "Run as you like", 4.8 miles
  * Friday: Rest day
  * Saturday: Interval running, 4.5 miles
  * Sunday: Walking day, 4.8 miles

Every week this ends up being about 23 miles total of running or
walking.  I'm hoping in 2012 to increase this to about 25 miles a
week so that I can make my goal of 100 miles a month.  I don't
actually have to that much because of the extra few days beyond 4
weeks in a month, but I will probably be doing it anyway, because I
like my interval running to last between 45 minutes and an hour, and
lately I've been under 45 minutes so I need to make the route longer.

I don't know if this is a great training program, but it's been the
one that I can keep to for the last few months, so I am happy with it
at least, and I've been improving my times.  As the weather gets
colder, I have had to gear up in order to avoid freezing my
extremities off.  Next time, I'll be writing about how I keep warm.

